As mentioned in an earlier repository, we are using the Ackerman mechanism, which is linked to the servo motor, for the steering of the front two wheels. This mechanism, also known as Ackerman steering geometry, is a geometric arrangement of linkages in the steering of a vehicle. It is usually designed to solve the problem of wheels needing to trace out circles of different radii when steering. This mechanism is essential for ensuring that the wheels of a vehicle follow the correct path while turning, minimizing tire wear and improving handling. In our case, we are using this mechanism in order to improve the steering of our vehicle to the optimum level. This mechanism helped us because when we tried to directly connect the servo motor to the front two wheels, we saw that our robot was taking sharp turns and wasn’t able to control the same efficiently. However, this changed significantly when we tried the Ackerman steering. The mechanism provides more precise and predictable steering, enhancing vehicle control. Additionally, while testing, we also realised that by ensuring the wheels follow the correct path during a turn, the Ackerman mechanism reduces tire scrubbing and wear, hence improving the tire health.

How this mechanism traditionally works: When a vehicle turns, the inner and outer wheels must trace circles of different radii. The inner wheel needs to turn more sharply than the outer wheel. Ackerman steering geometry ensures that the inside front wheel turns at a sharper angle than the outside front wheel. It consists of three components, the steering arms (attached to the front wheels), the tie rods (connect the steering arms to the steering gear, which in our case is the servo motor) and the kingpin (the pivot point around which the wheel assembly turns, which in our case is an extension of the servo motor). Additionally, the correct Ackerman geometry involves positioning the steering arms such that, when extended, the lines drawn through the steering arms meet at the center of the rear axle. This ensures that all wheels are aligned with the turning circle's center. When the steering wheel is turned, the steering gear moves the tie rods, which in turn move the steering arms. Due to the specific angles and lengths of these components, the inner wheel turns more sharply than the outer wheel, maintaining the correct turning radii.

Here is the link to the YouTube Video we referred to, for the construction of the Ackerman mechanism:

We are also adding photos of our mechanism to this repository for reference.
